Welcome to File and Directory Navigation Commands. In this video you will learn how to: List directory contents, Navigate directories, And, find files. The “L S” command will list the files
and directories within a directory. If you enter “L S” in your home directory,
you will see all files and directories that your home directory contains. You can also pass a directory name, such as
“Downloads”, as a parameter to “L S”, which displays the contents of your Downloads
folder. The “L S” command also supports further
options to provide additional information. Now, suppose you are currently working in
your documents folder. You can use “L S” with the “minus L”
option, which will show child files and directories in a longer, more detailed format. And you can see all child files and directories
along with additional details, such as: permissions, last-modified date, and owner. The “p w d” command will print the present
working directory. You can enter “p w d” whenever you are
not sure which directory you are in. Here you can see that you are currently working
in your home directory, “slash users slash me”. The “cd” command is used to change the
current working directory. Now, suppose you are in your home directory,
and you wish to move to your Documents folder, which happens to be contained in your home
directory You simply enter “c d Documents”. Now, if you enter “pwd”, you can see that
you are indeed in your Documents folder. The “c d” command enables you to change
directories with either an absolute path to the directory, which always starts from the
base or “slash” directory, or as relative path, which starts from your current working
directory. Now, imagine you are in a “Notes” folder
somewhere in your “Documents” directory tree. To get to your immediate parent directory,
you can simply enter the cd command along with the relative path symbol, “dot dot”
as its argument. Now, you can see you are in “Math”, which
is the parent directory of your notes folder. If you want to get to your home folder directly,
without having to explore to get there, then you can simply use the “tilda” symbol. And you are now in your home folder. Tilda
represents your absolute path to home. Finally, you can provide a full path to a
directory. Here, you are referring to the absolute pathname
for the Notes directory from where you started your journey. And as expected, you are now back where you
started, in your Notes directory. The “find” command is a powerful tool
that will find the path to every file that matches a given user-specified criterion. Now, suppose your Documents folder has a file structure
as shown, with two subfolders, each containing a few files. And let’s say, you are currently in your
Documents folder, and you want to find the path to all files called ”a dot text”
within your “Documents” tree. To do so, you can simply type “find dot
minus name a dot txt”. The “dot” argument means “search within
here”, that is, from your current working directory. To perform a case-insensitive version of your
search, you can use the “minus i name” option instead of “ i name”. And, indeed, you find the same file, plus
another file with the same name except that the letter “A” is uppercase. In this video you learned that: The “ls” command lists all files and directories
contained within a specified directory tree And, you can navigate directories using the
“cd” command.