Welcome to Viewing File Content. In this video, you will learn how to apply
commands that operate on files to: View the contents of a file in useful ways. And, determine line, word, and character counts. There are several useful commands for viewing
file content. To begin with, you can use the cat command
to print the entire file to standard output. Suppose your current directory contains a
single file called “numbers.txt,” which you can see by entering the “ls” command. To print the contents of this file to standard
output, you can type “cat numbers dot txt”, which produces the output shown here, consisting
of the numbers 89 through to 99. You can see that the output takes up the entire
terminal window. The file is much longer than the 12 lines
you see here. For this reason, you might not always want
to use “cat” to view contents – thankfully, there are alternative commands for cases such
as these. The “more" command allows you to view a
file’s content in a page-by-page format. By entering “more numbers dot text” You see the numbers 0 to 8 on page 1 as shown. By "page" we just mean the current terminal
window. If you expand your terminal window vertically,
you also increase the page size. And when you click the space bar you will
see the next page, which displays the numbers 9 through 17. Entering "q" quits the “more program”
and returns you to the command prompt. You can use the “head” command to print
the first 10 lines of your file. Entering “head numbers dot test” Returns the first 10 lines, or the numbers
zero through nine, as shown. You can specify the number of lines you would
like head to return using the “minus N” option. By entering "head minus three numbers dot
text", you get back the first 3 lines of numbers.txt,
as "zero one two". The tail command is used to print the last
10 lines of a file. Entering “tail numbers dot txt”, returns the last 10 lines of “numbers.txt”,
namely, the numbers from ninety through to ninety-nine. Just like with the “head” command, you
can use the "minus n” option to change the number of lines returned. By entering "tail minus N three numbers.txt", you get back the last three lines of numbers.txt:
ninety-seven, ninety-eight, and ninety-nine. You can use the ”W C” command to count
the number of characters, words, or lines in your file. Imagine you have a file called “pets.txt”.
Entering "cat pets dot text" shows that the file contains the word "cat" or the word "dog"
on each line. By entering “W C pets dot text”, You get the result ”7, 7, 28 pets dot text”,
which means that your file contains 7 lines, 7 words, and 28 characters. But 7 times 3 is 21, so why does "W C" see
28 characters? Because it also counts newline characters
– you can't see them here, but there are seven newline characters, one of which represents
“end of file”. To view only line count you can use the "minus
L" option, which returns ”7 pets dot txt”. Similarly, to view only word count you can
use the "minus W" option, and to view only character count you can use
the "minus C" option. In this video, you learned how to: Apply the “cat”, “more”, “head”,
and “tail” commands to view file contents in multiple ways. Determine the line, word, and character count
of a file using wc.