Welcome to Networking Commands. In this video you will learn how to: Examine your network configuration. Evaluate the stability of a URL connection. And, Identify and retrieve data from a URL. The “host name” command is used to get or set the “host name” and other information
which uniquely identifies your computer. Entering the “host name” command without any
options returns the host name of your machine. Which in this example is “my
Linux machine dot local”. The “dot local” suffix appears in the host
name if your machine has “local domains” set. To drop the domain suffix, you
can include the “minus S” option. If you use the “minus i” option, hostname
will provide the IP address of the hostname. The ifconfig command, which stands
for Interface configuration, displays information regarding all
your device’s communication devices. If you enter ”if config” with no options, you get
a lot of information – including the IP address, MAC addresses, and the hardware
specifications of your communication devices. A lot of this information is
beyond the scope of this course and would be more useful
for system administrators. You can also specify a specific
device you want ifconfig to inspect, such as an ethernet adapter, called ”eth0”. Entering “ifconfig eeth zero” returns information
about your ethernet adapter, such as its internet address, the number of packets received, including
counts of errors and dropped packets, the same metrics applied to transmitted packets, and the
total amount of data received and transmitted. You can use the “ping” command to test
connectivity to a host or IP address. "ping" sends packets known
as ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) requests to the server,
listens for a response, and prints a result. For example, by entering "ping google dot
com", "ping" returns a line of info for each successful response to an echo request and
continues until you abort with "control C". And after ping aborts, it prints
summary statistics for the ping results. For each echo request, ping reports
useful information, including: The IP address of the given URL, " one four two
dot two five one dot four one dot six eight", and the total round-trip time in milliseconds. The provided statistics at the end include: how many packets were transmitted and received, the percentage of packets dropped, and the minimum, average, maximum, and standard
deviation of the round-trip times in milliseconds. If you would like the ping command to
return a set number of ping results, you can use the “minus C” option: Entering “ping minus c five google dot com” returns the five ping results, aborts, and then prints the same statistics it would
print without the “minus C” option. The “curl” command is a powerful tool
which enables you to transfer data to and from URLs and supports
many different protocols. Entering "curl www dot google dot
com" returns the entire HTML content of the landing page at www.google.com,
using the default “H T T P” protocol. You can see, for example, the path to
a “P N G” file for the google "G" logo. You can render the logo by appending its
path to "google dot com" in your browser. You can even get curl to
write the contents of a URL to a local file. This is done
using the “minus o” option. For example, you can enter "curl www
dot google dot com" together with the ”minus o” option and a file
name such as “google dot text”. You can then view the contents of google.txt using the head command and verify that the file
contents indeed match the previous output. Similar to curl, the “w get” command is
used to retrieve files located at a URL. wget is like curl in that it can retrieve a file
located at a URL or the HTML code for a web page, but it is more specialized in its protocol support
and has recursive downloading capabilities. This is useful when a URL might point
to a folder that contains several files. Here you use wget to download a single test file called " I S O underscore eight eight five nine
dash one dot text", which is hosted by w3.org. wget returns information while
it is downloading, such as: “resolving and connecting” to the target server, “HTTP request sent, awaiting response”, and “saving the file”, which it automatically names for
you, to the current directory. For reference, here is what your browser shows you when viewing looking at
the data located at the URL. It’s a simple text file. By entering “head minus twelve I S O underscore
eight eight five nine dash one dot text", you see the first twelve lines of
the contents of the downloaded file. As expected, the file contains the exact same
data that you just saw on the previous slide. In this video you learned how to: View network configuration
with hostname and “i f config”. Test a network connection using the ping command. And, send and receive data using
the curl and “w get” commands.